Can rewrite one of the three essays given to you to choose from on the best, but you must do the following:
1. Make an appointment with the academic success center to help bettert your writing: http://success.ucdavis.edu & provide proof of visit.
2. Be sure you bring and use all of the materials made available to you for your appointment including "How "Writing About Art" guide, "Midrtem Study sheet" & the links t all the films found in the announcement area of the smartsite.
3. Essay rewrites due Thursday, Nov 19th - should be better than midterm essays since one has all available resources. Email them to section instructor.

evaluate -- write crtitically about the usbject. do that shit on the essay

---------------------------------------------

Art 24: Early Performance Video

"art needing a witness", notions of the public vs the private

he picked 3 artists and an additional one that was part of your counterpoint for today, just a piece of her

3 artists to focus on

a lot of artists that could have been worked into this but for simplicity's sake he put 3

EARLY VIDEO ART

in the late 60s and early 70s while some artists formed collectives (such as Ant Farm a& TVTV) which respond to the medium of video in r

1st half of quarter is ppl who worked in film, the 2nd half is people who worked with video

CONTD. which resopnd to the memedium of video in relation to the spectacle of telvision, other artists responded to the immediacy of the mediu on much more intimate terms.

TVTV: artist collective that replicated a newsroom model, covered things major news networks didn't cover (in regards to the angle), elections, primaries, etc

Sony Portapak (1967): 1st commercially succesful portable video recording system
    like a suitcase, the camera is separate from the recording device
    the wheels used a kind of magnetic strip tape

Video's immediacy

Unlike film, video tapes did not have to be chemically developed and oe could also connect a camera directly to a monitor to see what they wre recording during their recording (called a live feed)

Artists who were used to working aloe in their studios, took hold of this and began to establish their own respond to the medium, sometimes performning for the camera for the entire length of the video tape

endurance pieces that would last for 30 min to an hour


Bruce Nauman born 1941

American artist working in sculpture, photography, neon, video, drawing, printmaking, and performance

Born in indiana presently living in new mexico

attended grad school at UCDavis in 1965-66

hes by far the most recognized and influential and recognized of his generation

While some of his earliest performative pieces were in film, he always took to a personal connection with the camera that would later personify early video performance works.

His early influences were the philosopher of language games Ludwig Wittgenstein, and experimental musical composesrs Joh ???????

Nauman biggest influence was friend Meredith Monk, a music composer and choreographer who brought simple repetitive gestures into her work that were sometimes based on everyday activities, like sweeping. Like singing the same not over and over etc

His early works were considered part of the "process art" movement that focuesed less on the end of rpooduct of art as much as the processes that form the work that could include any variation of repition and intentionality
    cutting something apart, pouring, profcess artr is not focused on the craft, but the residual process of an activity

Bruce Nauman after graduating UCD, he was like "wtf doi do in the studio" no more ppl scrutinizing him in the context of school / instant audience. he decided it must be art, is more of an activity more than a product for him.

"Walking in an exaggerated manner around the perimiter of a square"
    walking in contropasto
        in classic greek and roman sculptures, they lean on one leg
        u can tellat a certain time when they see if u had to keep the statue up w/o a stump or w/e
    hes basically walking like those greek contropasto peepshhe goes around on e way walking forward and one way walking back, cuts out when hes walking back


"Bounding inthe corner"
    back againstcorner of wal, wfall into it, have him bounce back up wtf lol
    2 PARTS TO IT LOL
    one from in front of him on the ground, the other where hsi head is up close upside down
"wall/floor positions"
    doing twister on the floor for like 3 seconds
"revolving upside down"
    camera upside down one leg rolling around wtf
"violin tuned DAED"
    camera sideways him just playing one notes on a piano 1 hz, D E A D notes repition wtf lol olol olol lo lol olol lo lol o
"flesh black to white"
    first paints his body white, then paints his body black, then washes him self off so it goes back to flesh color
'pinchneck'
    making weird faces with his mouth and 2 fingers st retching his moouth not showing his face just the bottom of his mouth and hiss chin and his neck
    then he moves onto stretching his neck
"lip sync"
    mouth, chin, neck, upside down. says sync lip over and over again
"get out of my mind, get out of this room"
    thing he set up where theres speakers in a room and he just makes like zombie sounds and shit coming from a bunch of different speakers
    its not a video its an actual room, like an actual performance

the thing about the extensio of the human body ranges from writing (extends the mind), phone (extends the voice), computers extend the mind times crazy.
he uses video to extend himself. "Phiaumanology" article.
    the article is trying to understand our place in the world and how our experience is enhanced and numbed by our senses

he tries to displace the embodiment to an architectural space. attraction/repulsion to activities/phrases that he brings the audience into


He began working in neon (Bruce Nauman, FUCK HE CHANGED IT)

Bruce Nauman, Self Portrait as Fountain (1965-67)
    pics not vids
Anthro/Socio (1991)
    two dudes just on 2 screens at the same time yelling the same thing over and over
    different tones kinda like singing? but not really
    one of the faces is upside down
    "feed me eat me anthropology"
    "help me hurt me sociology" - study of the structures of society
    some of the faces on TV monitors, some on prjectors

Vito Acconci born 1940
An American visual artist who worked in poetry, video performance, installation, and architecture.
Born in The Bronx, NY, Acconci was primarily schooled in Roman Catholic all boys educational institutions focused on literature and poetry.
a lot of his work deals with sexuality and power dynamics, and the notion of the frame
"theme song" - pleeads with the camera to come in and join him, trying to create intimacy and desire by asking the viewer to come and be intimate with him
TRADEMARKS September 1980
Biting as much of my body as my mouth can reach. Applying printers ink to reach bite & stamping bite-prints like finger-prints.
^ performance art
Acconci's video works often involved a direct physical or verbal address to the camera/spectator.
Vito Acconci "Centers" (1971)
    points at the camera for like 22 minutes
    its like hes trying to fill the videwr into the video with him, he does nothing but point but its like hes trying to get you to join him, trying to make video lie a 2-way street and not just be him benig the presenter
    THIS GUY IS A POET
        the guy chooses vague titles
        whose the center? us? are we the ones being pointed at?
        or is he the center? cuz hes the guy on the video
        or  is the center the finger itself? the fulcrum between the audience and the artist?
        or the camera?
        he tries to mask his face throughout most f the piece
        also notice the act of pointing as a gesture, like if i point at you for like 20 min thats pretty rude lol
        theres this kinda safety mechanism. theres a frame in which he can get away with this activity without being seen as rude (or maybe its still rude?)

Vito Acconci, "Pryings" (1971)
    this is talked about in the reading as well as "Centers"
    chick, is being manhandleed by someone else, close up on the chicks face.
    ithe guy has 2 hands on her face and tries to open her eye but shes resists
    when he opens the eye its just the white
    he switched to the other eye wehen you saw the pupil????
    naw
    now hes opening both eyes
    then switched back to her left eye
    just keeps trying to open her eye while she kinda struggles to get away
    she isnt really trying *that* hard to get away
    trying to make her look at him? but she doesnt wanna look?
        so its hella weird and private and disturbing?
"Undertones"
    10-min exceprrprpt of 20 min piece
    "i wanna believ e there is a girl here on the table"
    just the guy sitting at the table talking about what he wants the girl tod o
    hella sexual shit
    rubbing his thighs and shit
    sorry under the table
    switches context
    i need you to be there sitting there. i need you to talk to me. its like hes directing the vidwer directly
    switches again
    "i want to believe there is nobody under the table"
    he keeps repeating himself over and over again
    switches back to directly addressnig the viewer with the same shit
    then switches back almost immmediately
    same shit with teh girl under the table
    kinda changes  his language a bit
    i want you to believe -> i wanto to belieive, etc etc
Vito Acconci, Seedbed (1972)
an endurance perfomance piece where the artist marturbates under a ramp built in the gallery while being verbally evocative over an amplified systemr
    the notion that something is live and happening rn, but is inaccessible
    he responded to one's presence (like being excited by footsteps)
Vito Acconci, Face of the Earth, #3, landscape architecture/sculpture (1988)
After the 70s Acconci directs more of his attention onto sculptural installations andeventually architecture as he forms his own firm in the late 90s.

Lynda Bengalis born 1941
Born and raised in Louisiana, Bengalis is an American visual artist most known for her early videos, wax paintings and poured latex scultpures
Along with Nauman, Bengalis ???????????
Lynda Benglis, Contraband, poured latex (1969)
    its just a bunch of colored latex poured on the ground in a room
Lynda Benglis, Phantom, polyurethane foam with phosphorescent, (1971)
Lynda Benglisi, Now (1973)
    profile of her face with a TV screen in the background
    "is it now?"
    "start recording?"
    seems like she just records herself, then plays the vid, then goes in front of the TV infinitely
    interacting with her previously recorded self
    tongue sticking out and recieving the tongue
    otrying to capture a monent and the futility of trying to capture a moment
    whose being instructed to start/stop recording? bcuz so many ppl in the TV say it over and over again
"Female Sensibility" (1973)
    her and another woman are made up and are making out while AM radio is playing in the background
        the radio goes on its a much longer piece. females call and in a way being patronized by the talk show host (being called honey) all these song some by men siniging "you need me" and by woman saying they need a man
she also did some shit where she challenged the NY art world in 99474 with some pic of herself nude with a dick or something
2012 Scarab
COUNTERPOINT 11
    give you a link reflect on martha rosles semiottics of the kitchen
