most art made after 1950s-60s is referred by the broad term of contemporary art a predominant term that attempted to encapsulate more recent art and art movements is.....
(and increased sense of globalization)

Postmodernism.... (disputed name, could be Hypermodernism)
sought to counter some aspects of Modernism by challenging the notion of "Make it New" by considering ways in which one can draw upon past visual styles and a variety of cultural traditions & place them within a contemporary context.

In art, it also challenged ways in which artists thought about media in their traditional modes of sculpture, painting, performance, etc. with the possibility of Intemedia, Installation art, Conceptual Art, and Multimedia; particularly involving video and later digital media.

contextualizes these past visual styles in another context to not make it repetitive
a real recognition of the past comes into play
Andy Worhol
flexus (?) was very inter-media

__Postmodernism in art___
bricolage: something constructed or created from a diverse range of available things (could be a desk, shirt, etc)
    the use of words or text as a central element
appropriation: recontextualizing materials to critique the original or make a different statement outside of the origin's intentional use
    breaking the barriers between the high arts and the low arts found in popular culture
        (like kitch) modern art critics that would shun anything that had to do with kitch
        some guy really talks about high brow and low brow and the differences between the two
            pop art does it too but it isnt' very specific (??)
infomercial: perfect postmodern moment
    when you tune in you dont know what it is... its a show? oh its commercial

How artists work with television?

Through creating a spectacle like Ant Farm's Media Burn that makes it to prime time news.
In partnership through residencies like Name June Paik via public broadcasting networks like Boston's WGBH, NYC's WNET, or SF's KQED
In ways that critiqued the power dynamics of the medium
THrough buying airtime to create unexpected disruptions in otherwise conventional programming
    finding new audiences, sneaking up on you in the middle of the night with a clip (liek what is that???)
By using the language of its conventions to make a broader statements
    language of its conventions: i.e., pulling from certain kinds of genres to reveal something about those genres

Richard Serra and Carlota Fay Scoolman, "Television Delivers People" (5:55 minutes, 1973)
    just a bunch of subtitles scrolling by talking about how consumerism is bad and shit
        "Television is the prime instrument for the management of consumer demands."
        "Soft propaganda is considered entertainment."
        etc etc
        "POPULAR ENTERTAINMENT IS BASICALLY PROPAGANDA FOR THE STATUS QUO." 2x
        you are the product of television programming blah blah blah
    60s ochestra leave it to beaver theme song shit playing in the background

Douglas Davis, "Video Against Video" (1975)
    "video as an object"
    basically interviewing a bunch of people pretending to be live and they ask them
    questions and they give these existential answers or something?
    its also an interview where he talks about the process
    talking about how the quality of immediacy makes them give more profound answers to the questions

Dara Birnbaum, "Technology/Transformation: Wonder Woman"
    wonder woman show chopped and screwed, repeats the same scenes over and over in a loop
    common theme of showing different transformation sequence over and over
    cuts to some theme music
    where they have the subtitles "I am wonder... wonder woman" while shes singing the same shit in the bg

    was recorded during second wave feminism
        questioning objectification of women and workplace rights and shit
        kind of shows how womder woman is powerful but she still is like scantily clad and stuff
            promotes only a certain body type


Max Almy, "Leaving the 20th Century" (11 minutes, 1982)
    pre
        on her off hours she would use the same tools that the TV company would use to make art pieces
    basically like this dude watching TV in his sleep in the future? like its being beamed to his brain
    starts off like a normal TV broadcast but then it gets sped up chipmunk style then FIRE EVERYWHERE
    "now u will regain consciousness"
    just generally really wird
    some chick like talking at the screen in a foreign language like german with chinese subs??
    "please respond"

    post
        a lot of the effects you see
        if anyone has done any editing or video software, a lot of things are you "throw in a clip"
        but back then in 1982 you ahve special effects boxes which were only accessible in TV houses
        almy managed to get her hands on those

        whats more intriguing is the amount (medium of the message) less intimacy, less face to face
        in a way almy she talks about that????? e

"Alive From Off Center" (30 min, First Episode, July 1st 1985)
    including work by Zbigniew Rybczynski, "Discreet Charm of the Diplomacy", .... FUCK he changed the slide
    pre
        very eclectic show
        the people who are listed are in the order of what gets shown

    people standing around at a fancy dinner banquet shit where there are animals undernear the table but gravity
    is flipped for the animals

    classical orchestra playing in the background, and there are like meow and sheep sound clips played

    then all of a sudden one guy gets sucked under the table and gravity is flipped for him and he has to crawl on all fours


    "RINGSIDE" in huge text

    chick in red latex on a blue circle just doing poses but there are a lot of cuts, like 5x per second

Stan Douglas, "television spots"
    scenes from sifferent TV shows
    then he just zooms in really far on one character that isnt really the main part of the scene
    then he does thay thing where a huge black circle zooms in on it kind of like in warner bros "t-t-th-th-thats all folks!"

    like this expextation theyre gonna sell you something but they dont???????
