Joan Jonas, Vertical Roll (1972) 19:38 minutes
    One of her most well known ????
    * not an easy piece
    chicks face upside down with a spoon
    BANG BANG BANG BANG on the screen or something
    her face slowly goes up before doing so, and then it goes back up and its just the spoon still BANGING
    it has that CRT shit where the vertical sync is off so it kind of scrolls down and you see the bottom half on the topi half sometimes and the top half on the bottom half etc
    was pretty creepy with the face , but now that effect is gone

    stops banging after a while

    then a new kind of banging, but not with the spoon, theres like some sort of expansion of some patterned fabric from the top and is slowly stretched with each bang
    im pretty sure its the camera that is being banged on
    fabric is gone
    now its some sort of silk clothing??? i have no clue
    oh it ssome chick
    its like shes lying down
    and sleeping
    now shes getting up
    or maybe the camera is just rotating
    now its like a rotating doll or figurine or something?

    its like with every hit of the camera, the blacjk line goes up and it slowly falls back down
    like, the black line being the split between the video feeds

    now its a naked cperson? just sitting ther looking at the camera
    i think its a girl but i cant tell for sure

    now its some chicks legs???  just walking around
    the banging instrument has eben the same this whole time btw. the onlyone that was different was the first one

    then she stops moving
    just a leg standing there.... well 2 legs, and the shadow on the wall of her legs
    now shes jumping up and down but it looks really weird and unnatural
    like shes being picked up? instead of jumping? or maybe its beebeing sped up?
    now shes drops a black dress over her legs and now shes jumping with a ripped black dress, then she disappears
    then now its her hands touching the floor
    close up of the hands
    turn her palm over
    now the hand is making gestures as if its the one thats hitting the BANG BANG thingy . one hand on top of the feed and one at the bottom. its like they're clapping
    white screen still banging with the black bar
    now it looks like someone else came on the screen, now its back to that cloth pattern
    and the banging started getting softwer, it sounds a buit different now
    lights.... a  pattern of lights
    starting to change again the soud of the banging... some background violin or some shit.
    turns out the lights is some chicks body wearing lengerie or something.....
    the banging sounds like more like a brick now instesad of a pipe
    but you can still hear the pipe a little bit
    so maybe she just has both ni her hand is banging it, and switched from hitting the pipe to hitting with the brick or something?
    still the same shit with the body.... just rotating

    this is only halfway through the video btw. he stopped it

    VIDEO DONE

    shes working with an artifact ct very specific to video and TV at the type
    old TVs at the time had a horiz and vert control, once in a while, your  TV would get out of whack and start skipping like that ...
        youd have to turn a nob to make it good again

    "One of her most well known early works exploring a 'glitch' specific to video at that time."

    theres a moment where it has a hive type im age.... when this vertical sync is off, suddenly that becomes a solid image... the pattern carries from one image to the next. she can create these kind of illusions that be a gesture that may be somehow inststigating the audio and visual component

    when she first stompted into the frame, the spoon was to the lower right hand corner. when she moved the legs started becoming these shapes that was like in the beginning of the vid, it was a pattern on the screen... continuation

    image of a blurry, but the post feels like a pinupgirl photo... its odd because is it her? or is it not? then u realize its not a moving image.... then she comes out with a  burlesque type outfit ..... the frame itself is often imployed to focus our attentions onto specifific body parts and shes dealing with forcing us to engage with that and how those body parts could be a ttached to something, not a normative body but like maybe a  "never ending stream of legs"...... some thoughts on vertical roll

Joan Jonas, Volcano ???? (1989) 28 min
    "An example of Jonas embracing keying and narrative, the story is based on a 19th century icelandic story. Tilda Swinton and performances artists Ron VaVawter star. 13 th century not 19th century.. Volcano Saga not Volcano ?????

    the retelling of a mideival myth
    working a lot with blue screen and chromakey (?) some
    some of the ways she works with tech. she thoughtfully thinks about one kind of technology at a time. like the split screen in the last vid. and then she moved onto vertical roll. what can joan jonas can do with this glitch in eearly tv and perform around it and within it. now shes exploring... IDK WTF HE SAID

    ok now we watching the video

    volcanic saga on youtube

    wringing towel in a bowl. over a green screen, mountains in bg, the wringing fades out just the mountsins
    cuts to some guy checking the gravity or some shit.
    cuts to same chick wriinging towel with water in bg
    cuts to guy with the ruler or w/e again in front of animals
    cuts to just the animals
    chick in front of water wriginging towel
    clouds and mountain in bg
    weird noises... oh wait its some ugly animals
    pan of some lake
    wriringing towel over green screen of water
    "it was a beautiful windy sunny day"
    "narrative of her going to some pink restaurant

    the narrator is shown with that ruler from before pointing at the camera.... talking.... idk

    she went back in time 1000 years to iceland?o

    some dude is asking a chick about her dreams

Joan Jonas & Jason Moran, Reanimation (2014) 5:30
Jonas often eperformed live with props and video. This is the ending excerpt of a recent collaboration with jazz pianist Jason Moran.
    youtube
    shes hella old now lol
    using a staff to draw a doodle on a blackboard???
    now shes crinkling paper ok
    some dude playying piano
    changed from ppiano to a synth with a lot of distortion
    now a recording of a pianothis new piano is actual piano like classical... the first piano was more unorthodox
    just kidding its the same guy not a recording


JJoan Jonas, They Come to us without a Word (2015) 
6 minute interview and documentary of her Venice Biennale exhibition at the United States Pavillion. A good example of her working with installation
    "the united states like to pick one artists that takes over the whole pavillion" and joan jonas had the honor of being the venics bianalle seletion this year!?!!?
    she talks about her worork and her progress, and has snippets of the installation.
    its nothing like the actual experience of being there but thi =is as close as we can get here soooo
    sshestalking about how were destroying the planet and corporations ocontrol everything blah blah blah

    vid over

    talking about developing a language and her relationship to literature and poetry..... theres these motifs (like the mirror) that go through her decades of work.

Shana Moulton born 1976
Born and Oakhurst, CA.
For more autobiographical information link here.
Moulton also owworks in video, performance art, sculpture, and installation.
She has been withking with an alter ego by the name of "Cynthia" for over a decade through a series titled Whispering Pines.

Shana Moulton, Whispering Pines 3 (2004) 7:46
Example of one of her early video works highlighting the character "Cynthia"
    
    some weird hchick writing in a journal
    about taking her dog to the vet, thinking she was having a baby but she was actually sick or smome shit
    she hasa  bunch of diamond light thingies in the background???
    shes talking realy slowly as a narrator over herself writing in the book, presumable talking as she writes the word
    puts her hand on a lightning laval lamp thing which makesa  lightning noiose
    now shes cathching those diamon dlights in a forest?????

Shana Moulton & Nick Halet, Whispering Pines 10 (2010) 2 minute trailer, Moulton's latest version of Whispering Pines os a live opera OMG WHY DO YOU CHANGE IT SO FAST WTFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF

