Tue Nov 24 12:30:08 PST 2015

just showed up to clasjs

"In Memory of James Baldwin (1924-???)

black and white vid, a bunch of black people and some lady saying some poetic shit in the background

guy in suit cryuing looking down

another black guys is dead.... presumably his friend/son?

lots of other ppl looking down

music starting to play, pretty good piano in the background.....

thescene is just them standing there.... nobody is moving

goes down a floor, like a party

"Looking For Langston"

Monday night may 22, mr hughes died <- on radio

now actually a film on the subway or light rail or something.... this is definitely the 20s or 30s

talking about langston hughes.... just a normal film using some modern-ish cinematography... its really refreshing

back to the old thing where the people are standing in the room not moving

all of a sudden it cust to another scene.... teh same one from the begnining at the ballroom, except they're dancing now.

it seems like everyone is gay. its dudes dancing with each other.

now that i mention it, that langston hughes shit was talking about homosexuality but i couldnt make out what they were talking about


Tue Nov 24 12:38:47 PST 2015

the cinematography in this is really fucking good. i legitimately dont believe it was made in the 20s this is crazy

guy in a suit walking through a field.... looks llike a wedding suit? theres also a line of flags hes walking past

hes going up to some nude dude

"ill wait" (?)

hes looking for a 'lily'... i guess the poppys and stuff hes talking about is symbolism for straight people


Looking for Langston Isaac Julien (45 min, 1989)
    a poetic consderation of langston hughes, the american poet, novelist, playwritght, a ctivist and on eo fhte leaders of the harlem renaissance

    thats what ^^^^^^ that was

    its over now

    theres definitely kind of a wonderful way hes moving in between these things, thinking about space in an interetsting way
    funeral, pan down, then a speakeasy
    
Isaac Julien, Young Soul Rebels (105m, 199)
    Julien's critically acclaimed narrative film about murder and a gay interracial love story between skinheads, punks, and soul boys.
    he won a critics prize at some film festival
    this was Julien's only foray into hollywood film... and was pretty successful but it kinda worked

Isaac Julien, The Attendant (8m, 1993)
    Experimental short
    A film about the fantasy life of a musem guard set at the Wilberforce House in Hull, England, which is a musem devoted to the history of ??????
    gonna watch it

    Tue Nov 24 12:47:39 PST 2015

    black and ahite

    gospel "remember me" bla bla

    soeme guy with a handbag going up the steps of some sort of court or something... courthouse
    goes up to security guard and checks the contents of the bag


    close up of his face, angel surrounds it... i mean goes around it,
    then the same angel goes around the guards face

    both smiling wtf

    ok now its the inside of some sort of art museum with that same guy


    now some dudes crotch with gold speedo 2 angesl 

    art museum again

    people chillin in a room... wait rsurrounding some guy... but its like a still.... but the camera is panning

    now a chick presin g her ear against a wall, sounds like some distorted people fuckin

    first guy... in color, on the ground node with another guard behind him about to whip him. still 'frame' like before

    now theyre standingg.... it cut to some other shit first though it wasnt like it instantly went to that
    back to gospel shit

    the same angel arrow guy floating around the gospel. like it was rotating around a spindel in front of a green screen

    black guy without shirt on looking @ camera in color

    OVER

    "which is a musem devoted to the history of slavery." <- the end of the shit i didnt have time to type out

    this wasa t the height of the AIDAS epidemic... working through historyical figures, fantasy life
    thinking about the desire for ... how desire might operate among racial barriers
    also power dynamics and racial subjigation as a fetish... as a subculture within the larger gay culture at the time
    it was really coming together and protest and fight for presitions (?) to be seen, that never had to happen before bcuz of the aids epidemic
    desire is really political... ok? and julien is trying to navigate that space


Isaac Julien, The Darker Side of Black (59m, 1994)
    A documentary film about Rap and Reggae in black pop culture and its relationship to complex issues of machismo, misogyny, homophobia, & gun violence.

    watching

    Kingston, Jamaica, the capital of reggae music.... slavery was there!?!?
    sounds lik e a documentary

    its just about the history of hip hop and how jamaica influenced it
    jamaican sound systems -> NYC started hip hop

Isaac Julien, FFruntz Fanon: Black Skin, White Mask (70m, 1996)
    A drdrama-documentary film about Frantz Fanon, author who pioneered the study of the psychological impoact of racist on both the colorized and colorizer and reflected upon his ideas of representations of black bodies in the arts.

    Frantz Fanon wrote the book "BBlack Skin, White Mask"... he was a psychologist and work on his Algerian patients during the decolonization of France and Algeria... was a tumultuous process and still has residual racist undertones esp in the south of France bcuz of that colonization.

    not gonna watch it. just a trailer.

Isaac Julien, The Long Road to Mazatlan (20m, 1999)
    A three-channel installation and collaboration between Julien and choreographer Javier de Frutos, mixing familiar images of the West like the cowboy and cattle yard with more homoerotic iconographyt.

    cultural clash with things you wouldnt really think of going together.... ranch meets burlesque type drag queens lol

    myuthic landscape if you will

Isaac Julien, BaadAsssss Cinema (56m, 2002)
    A documentary exploring the influential movement of commercial black independent filmmaking thatr began in the early 70s that became known as "plaxploitation"

    a lot of the ppl involved in the industry dont relaly embrace the term because there were many directors that were black and actors that were black that were making money from it... "oh hey i was exploited" dont really wann a say that?
    was produced by hollywood
    theres a really interesting moment in cinema history in the 70s after nixon, a lot of holly wwood film would end not like most films todays
    really like unhopoefl turn of events in the 70s. no hollywood happy endings

    watching now

    documentary.... fuckin pulp fiction director was interviewed (quentin tarantino) and samuel l jackson

    "IM YO  PUSHA MAN"

    Super Fly

    blacksploitation degraded the political needs of the black audience
    encouraged to forget the politics to indulge the sex drugs and shit?


Isaac Julien, Baltimore (11m, 2003)
    A three-channel installation inspired while making his documentary on blaxploitation movies, the piece stars director of the genre Melvin an Peebles and is shot at many sites in Baltimore including the Great Blacks in Wax Museum.

Isaac Julien, True North (14m, 2004)
    a three-channel installation loosly inspired by the black american explorer matthew henson who accompanied robert peary on one of the first expeditions to the north pol

    the idea of installation as this geography unfolded
    body present in this harsh and very white environment

Isaac Julien, Ten Thosand Waves (49m, 2010)
    A nine-channel installation inspired by a tragedy that took the lioves of several ????? cockle pickers FUCCKKKK???? IDKK WHAT IT WAS
    
    i think it was chinese cockle pickers because im seeing some chinese people.

    u

    yeah de finitely chinese.

    view it from the chinese point of view instead of the european point of view

    an example of the kind of the behind the scenes and how he would work......
    museum in NY has a large atrium so ur chill

Isaac Julien, Playtime (2014)
    a nine channel installation inspired by a tragedy that took the lives of several chinese cockle pickers shown through the eyes of the fabled goddess mazu.

    ^wait thats the same description wtf?

    
