Tue Dec  1 12:32:11 PST 2015


showed up late, random vid playing

2 indian chicks standing next to each othre with their eyes closed,, ambient indian music in bg

one on left turns around and walks out

her walking down some alley in india... like the old school dirt alley with mud bricks and stuff

one on the right is still there with eyes closed

left standing in couryard

one on right goes away stasrts walking

shes in the city?

one on left is now in the courtyard eyes closed looing at camera

right one is on freeway, escalator

now shes standing there staring at the camera, right one starts moving

Humanitas: Shirin Neshat is what its called ^^^^^

Shirin Neshat, Soliloquy (199, excerpt - orig 15 min)
Another 2-channel installation that shows Neshat roaming a traditional Eastern cityscape (filmed in Mardin, Turkey) on one screen and a modern cityscape (filmed in Albany, NY) on the other.

Shirin Neshat, Rapture (13m, 1998)
A 2-channel video installatio working witha group of woman in a natural environment and a group of men with the constraints of a fort. Excerpts from the documentary written and directed by Jorg and Ralf Raimo Jung - "Expressing the Inexpressible: Shirin Neshat"
    He only has a documentary where she speaks about this project

    watchin vid

    crowd of indian women in burkas (not covering face) ALALALALALALALing. all walking away from camera now in the middle of the desert


    group of men chanting with collared shirts on.... walking in the city.

    woman leaving on the boat, ambiguous between commmitting suicide or going tyo freedom
        purposely ambiguous. the main point that was meant to get across was that they were brave

Tue Dec  1 12:49:02 PST 2015

    sweeping shots about the sense of space and the sense of bodies and how they ware moving through that space
    shee assigns these kinds of tasks (narrative) taking them out of a urban role out into a dune and the beach and sending them out on a voyage
    notion that "well, women off on this boat, could be suicide could be freedom could be this grand adventure or a grand escape" the fact that she has the intention to create this image that could be read in different ways, ambiguous is a kind of central, kernen kernel that artists work off of. bringing you into a space
    not didactic in the sense "this ship is going to X" she doesnt finnish the story
    part of the experience of the art is being guided to a place by an artist so people could make their own potential association
    it could just mean EVERYTHING lol

    then we think about the men
    they're in this fortress. fortified architecture with cannons along its side
    and she has them tasked with moving through this maze with ladders and stuff
    wearing swhite collar administrative shirts
    kind of a uniform of power (not militaristic) but the white shirt is a uniform. busy bee administrator
    she set them up with this absurd task of moving through this maze
    choreography, rather than constructing a narrative with a beginning middle and end
    almost making their movements like bees in a hive
    not necessarily catering to ?????
    like bees in a hive, always contained
    setting these two images against each other
    one is exploring a vastness, and the idea of containment and business

    the doc helps a lot because it helps you read the piece

Shirin Neshat, Fervor (excerpts, 200, original 10 minutes)
A 2-channel video that explores the divide between genders during a speech or sermon about the repression of sexuality amongst two character who are strongly physically drawn to each other.
    Story from the Kuran about a woman who leads a man to temptation, kits kind of a lesson to control ones desires.

    vid time

    vimeo.com/77076334

    (split screen, men and women are dividide in the channels) but in the same area?

    indian prayer like 8 chants as the sound

    two channel, two people walking down a dirt path. one channel is one person and the other channel is the other

    they meet at the cross roads. the channels both show the same scene except one is kind of zoomed in on the man and the other is on the woman


    now this dude giving a speech to a room of guys and chicks separated down the middle. women in burkas and men in white dress shirts
    speech is in indian

    each channel shows each side of the room. men on left women on right

    interesting cuts where it shows the room where like the wall is in the middel on both channels, so its like a wall is separating them where there isnt

    and sometimes it cuts to when all of the men (or women) chant at once it shows the same image on both channels but flipped. like half of his head and the men, and the same half of his head and the men (or women)
    one woman walks out of the room

    here she starts getting um, a little bit more narrative in a sense that they're.... we're seeing exceprts from the piece, excerpted linearly. a sense of beginning middle and end. a narrative, per se.
    as she developed her career a lot of her work started moving in the directino of narrative. kind of short narratives

    all these differences bening played out where these two channels. abrasion or conflict between these two channels. creating a bueautiful symmetry sometimes, sometimes showing opposites (mens side womans side)
    showing different camera andgle to the same space. or using the camera angles to the same space to show how bodies moving through it (like man omving towards the screen and woman moving towards the screen but opposite in the bg on the other chanel)



Shirin Neshat, Munis (12m, 2008)
Neshat begins to work in the genre of more traditional short narratives in her later films. Munis is one of these works based on based on Shahmush Parsipur's novel "Women Without Men", that takes place during the American-backed coup that ousted a democratically elected Iranianian Prime Minister Mosaddegh in 1953. (this whole line is sic. i think he made a shitton of typos or something)
    turbulent history in Iran and this one moment in time where there eawas a democratically elected prime minster, didnt last too long... CIA coup de tat. kind of an overthrow by british and american forces who put the sha meran back in power

    shes not telling that story per se but shes teklling the story about women without men. women who are navigating through a s a space of revolution and turmoil as this is happening in 1953.

    vid timeeeeeeee

    "Munis HirsshomMusem2015" YouTube

    THRAN 1953:

    chick listening to the radio about the news of fucked up shit happening.
    some guy walks in the room and interrupts her listening and trying to tell her something, "HUSSHO HUSSH" she ignores him and wants to listen to the radio
    its her brother.
    doesnt want her listening to whats going outside. very controlling bro and he tells her, if she goes outside he'll break her legs


    cuts to her outside now.

    oh btw that first scene was in b/w

    now its in color. shes outside and its like snowing i think? idk. everything is white. might just be the suns reflection. its not snowing but everythings white.

    some guy is laying down on the ground ... in distress. probably dying/dead?

    shes on a roof. btw. and i think she jumped off. yeah shes jumping off and is going to land where that other guys is


    slow mo. kinda like senses fail suicide slow m

    both her and the man laying on the ground next to each other dead (?) prolly dead.
    looks hella perfect. like they're just lying on the ground looking at the sky


    black and white now. some kinda protest. they're alive again.
    some sort of monologue is going on in the bg. reminiscent piano music also playing

    stopped at 6m

    made these shorts about this shit. eventually became a feature length film

Shirin Neshat, Woman Without Men (95m, 2009) Neshat's first feature length narrative is the fictional story of four women in Tehran during the 1953 Iranian coup d'etat where the Shah of Iran (Persian for king) was reinstated as monarch with the help of the CIA.

    trailer looks hella serious

    steve mcqueen (12 years a slave) was mentioned by him, idk in what context

Shirin Neshat Art in Exile (10:30m, TED talk filmed in Dec. 2010)
Not an artwork but the artist speaks about her work as someone in exile from her homeland and the ways she has approached making work about it.
Tue Dec  1 13:29:05 PST 2015

give you a broader sense of whats at stake for her as an artists.


if anyone remembers the green revolution . an event in 2009 2009 arab spring regime currently in charge kinda got squelched. fueled by social media and the like
Tue Dec  1 15:12:12 PST 2015



** DISCUSSION **



harvest.lib.ucdavis.edu
Omer Fast doesn't have shit on that site
(connor, p68)

important readings:
    shrieen deshat reading. augmentatino of the lecture. so no. parallel
    its helpful, you should be reading it, BUT definitely covers some of the same ground
    isaac julein waws similar to that
    what id like you to get a kind of sense of and be able to talk in general about it. ther ewas a few questions in writing on the mideterm that was general 

        marshal mclumen essay is
        wagner: performance video rhetoric and presence (early ones)

        ^those 2 are the most imporatant

        bruce norman "medium is the message" is a genralization of the marshan mclumen essay. just read the marshan mclumen

        douglass essay: film going and video going
Tue Dec  1 15:57:19 PST 2015

he will be in his office hour from 1-3 on monday
