Thu Dec  3 12:12:27 PST 2015

read the last amelia jones thing in the reader


pike mixed differnet parts of performance art and music??? idk use that on an example

people felt an influence by happenings????



Pipilotti Rist (born 1962)
Born and raised in Switzerland and known as Pipilotti in reference ot the famous nmovel Pippi Longstocking
Studied commercial art in Vienna and worked in advertising before studying video back in Switz
From 1988-94 she was a member of a music band called Les Reines Prochaines.
    kinda like a post-punk all gal band
Her works approach issue of gender, sexuality, nature and the human body
Often working with fisheye and macro lenses (lenses that capture subjects cvery close in proximity) and then projecting the images up into large scale.
Many of her works use saturated blown out colors and chroma-keying resulting in a layed dense process of imagery
    chroma-keying is where you shoot something and its a particular color (the weatherman uses this, .... blue screen or green screen technology) AKA key (make invisible) any color

Pipilotti Rist, I'm Not The Girl Who Misses Much (5m, 1986)
The title is a reference to a reference to the first line of the song "Happiness iIs a Warm Gun" by the Beatles
        its like a vlog.....
        shes blurred out... close up of her face... shes singing the song and is speeding it up.
        and shes just getting crazy...... goes back and it seems like her boobs are hanging out but i cant really tell because its blurred out so much
        she slowed it down and turned it orange
        now shes using the vsync to leave artifacts scrolling from left to right
Pipilotti Ruist, Pickelporno (12m, 1992)
A work that begins as if in a cinematic narrative only to evolve into a layered abstracted tryst. Rist desires "to propose images of sexuality rather than to analyze the pros and cons of pornography."
Pipilotti Rist, Blood Clip (2m, ????)
    about menstruation?????

    its basically a vid of her on her period.... fully nude... with punk in the bg.
    gross

    Caption: Rist creates an energized music video juxtaposing the mentral cycle with gemstones and the world... music by the Sophisticated Boom Boom/Netz Maeschi

    rotation of the mirror, rotation fo tehg alaxuyy. shes trying to take something that someone wouldnt necessarily ut out there and turn it inside out and relate it to stuff that is part of nature and also something to celebrate

Pipilotti Rist, Selfless in the bath of lava (video installation, 1994)
Rist first notable video installation was small in comparison to the ways in which she would scale up in later works. The piece would be viewed behind a hole in the floorboardsw or carpet depending on the venue.
    its basically her chrome keyed into the lava and calling out for assistance

    vid time

    shes naked aagain. its a vid. shes in a vid and the lava is a vid. its a pretty bad chroma key job tbbbh for todays standards but for 94 its decent i guess

Rist, Sip My Ocean (9m loop, 1996)
Rist scales up to floor to ceiling two channel video projections and underwater cinemamatography. The soundtrake is her own remake of ??????
    vid time

    the channels are mirrored
    some quilt heart at the bottom of the ocean. some algae and coral and shit.

    now its above water and some pipe


    now underwater and a cup drifting to the bottom of the ocean

    a girl now. doing that facetime shit.... err photobooth shit not facetime

    now her fingers in a field
    
    vid over

    keep in mind that this was before gopro, so the underwater shots were particularly impressive

    caption contd: The soundtrack is her own remake of Chris Isaak's song Wicked Game.

Rist, Ever is Over (1997)
Two channel installation with each channel at different length times, the work playfully juxtaposes Rist's representations of effervescent femininity with a destructive force. Loops.
    vid time
    the channels are blended
    left is a chick walking down the street with a bat or something smashing car windows
    the right channel is like walking through a meadow and flowers and stuff
    the first smash had sound, but the second window breaking didnt
    cop walks by her and smiles and tips her hat lol.
    3rd window break has sound

    vid over

    definitely kind of turning things on their head. thinking about this stroll down the street with a baby blue dress blowing in the wind. replica of a flower and fllowers in the projection on the right. phallic metal flower, weldingit against the cars. tehe police officer passes by is a nice addition to that

Rist, Open My Blade (2000)
A piece that was first premiered as a public artwork in Times Square.
    hers actually was one of the first
    if youre ever in times square around midnight always look at the screens. cuz thats when those art pieces are usually aired
    vid time
    nude chick. hair.
    pressing her face up against glass. onluy can realy see her face.
    just rubbing her face against the glass
    now psychedelic smoke rings with different color lights hitting the smoke from all directions. no more girl or glass
    he ended the vid
    i guess it makes more sense in times square since it seems like she was pressing against the screen?

Rist, Homo Sapiens Sapiens (2005)
Rist's large scale multi channel video install originally constructed at San Stae Church in Venice as partt of the Venice Biennale
    vid time
    naked bodies rotating like rolling.... green screened plants and shit
    now its just plants... and shit? idk it might not be plants but computer generated
    ok now its skin in a weird lighting. think its a thumb or something
    yeah its a close up of a hand
    ok
    now naked bodies. man and a womanholding hands and shit and going in weird positions
    theyre not having sex tho
    now its black with lights and shit
    now its various body parts..
    girl cupping a ballsack
    now girl cupping two peaches and destroying the peaches. wow
    now her face pressed up against a peach. some weird rgreen screen shit.....
    smushed the peach with her face.
    now smushing it with her legs


    vid over

    projected on the ceiling. fingers projected on an entire ceiling

Rist, Pepperminto (feature length film, 2009)
Quirky tale about a young girl lacking fear who receives guidance from her deceased grandmother. The whole movie can be viewer here. Wow i didnt need to write that last sentence. nor that one. or that one. or that one. or that one. or that one and this one.
Rist, Pour your Body Out ((7354 cubic meters) (2009)
Rist's monumental installation at the museum of mdern art in NYC included a round seating area based on the stage ????????????????????????

AWWW YEAAAA AAWWW YEAAAAAAAA
