FIRST DAY

you have 10 weekly homeworks, due mondays before class at 5PM

read chapter 1 on your own, and read the chapter before thanksgiving on your own

everything else is in lecture

CH 2: GDP

The Great DepressIon (1929-39)

AKA long & deep recession
hooverville: neighborhood of shacks, named after herbert hoover

wages went down by a shitton collectively

industrial production & farm = 50%
manufacturing down 70%
construction 80%

unemployment 24%
england: 37% unemployment

people w/ jobs were mostly part time

asset values plummeted
prices declined by close to 35%



polcymakers were fucking up

in theory and in measurement

theory: didnt know the causes of the problems (why: prodution going down, people not buying, high unemployment, huge deflation)

measurement: didnt know the magnitude of the problem (no good data/stats)

2 thingss came out of the GD:
theory: keynesian economics (macroeconomics)
measurement: simon kuznets developed the GDP

Objective: polcymakes\rs want to have an idea about the amount of *all* the goods and services produced by the domestic factors of production over a certain period of time

Why?
    1. Employment (man-hours)
    2. Income
    3. Standards of living (quality of shit we consume)

Definition of GDP

Total market value of all the final goods and serveices produced by the factors of production located in a country during a certain period of time

AKA all the shit we sell

ridiculously simple and ridiculously important

GDP = P1*Q1 + P2*Q2 + P3*Q3 + ...

non-market productions are not included (no employment and income generated, hard to measure and include)

household non-market production (AKA my friend pays me $100 to fix his garage)
    this goes into the GDP
selling shit on craigslist
    this goes into the GDP
illegal activities
    NOPE cause not reported
only goes into the GDP if you put it on your tax return


FINAL GOOD: car, bread, computer, etc
NOT FINAL GOOD: flour egg, yeast, tire, battery, CPU

we want to include ALL the goods and services produced, but only ONCe

SERVICE: an act of helpful activity

why count in services?
    more services -> higher life standard

count in only the NEW production. why?

sell ur car on craigslist to your friend -> doesnt go into GDP cause its not produced
    if you pay a salesman to do it for you then the price you paid the salesman goes into the GDP tho

sevond-hand goods: NO GDP INCLUSION

buy book from store for $250, sell it back for $5, they sell it for $55.

$250 for book + $50 service ($55 - $5) for selling it goes into GDP

aasset transfer: NO GDP
capital gains: NO GDP

if you buy new stock in IBM its not put into the GDP

FACTORS OF PRODUCTION: land, labor, capital
    the things we use to produce a physical thing

LOCATED IN A COUNTRY: the shits on U.S. soil
nationality of the factors is not important
aka japanese company puts a bunch of shit here and makes shit -> u.s. GDP

Should we count in the imports?33
    we import chardonay from france,
    we pay $2M french wine.
        we do not include it in the U.S. GDP
        the factors of production are located in France

DURING A CERTAIN PERIOD OF TIME:
   Why does that matter?
        production takes time
        in this class it will only be one year


FLow Variable
    variable that we need a time frame to measure
    "flows over time"
    spend becomes flow
    examples:
        how much you spend last month
        income

Stock variable
    variable that we can measure at one point in time
    example:
        how much money do you have in your pocket right now
        how many tractors are on the farm



What is excluded from GDP?

1. Imports
    production not on our soil
2. Second-hand goods
    no production
3. Asset transfers
    no production
4. Capital gains/losses
    no production
5. Household non market activities
    meh
6. Illegal activities
    not reported
