Chapter 06: Loanable Funds Market

SUMMARY SO FAR:

    In the long run Y = Y(p)
    In the long run u = u(n)

    Lending and borrowing decisions are affected by expected real interest rate:
        r = R - pi

        if pi goes down, then you'll borrow less
        if R goes up, then you'll borrow less

    BUT WHAT determines the real interest rate?

Asset
    Anything that has value because it is expected to bring some benefits to the owner in the future
    Real Assets: Physical things you can own (Lands, houses, apartments, factories)
    Financial Assets: Claims on someone elses's future income or wealth (Stocks, bonds, money)
    Human Capital: Knowledge and skills possessed by people

Financial Markets
    markets in which financial assets are traded

    Surplus Spending Units --------money------> Deficit Spending Units
    1. Households                               1. Households
    2. Firms                                    2. Firms
    3. Government <------financial assets------ 3. Government

    Money goes from the surplus people to the deficit people
    financial assets go from the deficit people to the surplus people

    e.g. the government collects too much taxes and loans ppl money
    or the government collects too little taxes and needs to borrow money

    can get money through certain thingies
        financial markets (direct)
        financial intermediaries (indirect)

    Who does what to raise cash?

    Government: selling bonds
    Corporations: selling bonds or selling stocks
    Households: selling bonds or through simple loans

    Bond =
        A piece of paper promising to pay a known
        fixed amount (called future or face value) at
        a known future date. Also called an IOU or
        permissory note.

    Bonds are issued by those who want to borrow money

    they basically auction it off to the highest bidder

    e.g. they try to off a $1k bond and the highest bidder offers $900

    Marginal investor: people who bid the highest price for a bond

    Rate of return = (Future price - Price of the bond)/(Price of the bond) * 100

    R = (F - P(Bond))/P(Bond) * 100

    the riskier the bond, the lower the price
    the lower the price, the higher the interest rate

    Scan/m (???) bond ^^^^

    theres another type called the Coupon Bond

    coupon bonds pay you a smaller amount regularly over a period of time

    instead of getting back like $1k at the end of 10 months you get like $100 every month
