real interest rate decreased because software companies started up and dont need that much capital? so demand for borrowed funds goes down idk in the last few years

lots of value added from the software, but dont need much to make it. just programmers and laptops

CPI inflation rate has been going down in the past few years (disinflation)

walker disinflation
**volcker

1984-2004 = the great modemration
    things became very stable in the USo

inflation rate goes down -> interest rates go down
    fischer effectoo



expected future profitability


D(LF) vs S(LF): R - pi on the y axis, LF on the x ais
y is in %, x is in $

an incrase in credit risk, banks willing to loan less, supply of loaned funds goes down
an increase in inflation volatility, borrow less, lend less, so demand and supply surve shift to the left, then the equilibrium LF goes down but not the %o

if lending goes down and borrowing goes down, it has an efffect on something else. demand for assets goes down. lowre demand for homes and shit. GDP goes down too. this happened in the late sixties to the seventies. Y/L stayed the same or went down a bit

is 1% the same as 1%?

real interest rate;  = R - pi

r = +11% - 10% = 1%
r = +2% - 1% = 1%

is the first 1% different from the second 1%?????

the one on the right is better????? idk


Chapter 08: Money and Banking

for most, money is something we use to buy goods

when we say Donald Trump is rich, we mean he has lots of valuable assets
"she makes lots of money" she ha a lot of income


ACTUAL DEFINITION TIME
Mnoey is anything that performs the following functions

1. Medium of Exchange
    Double coincidence of wants
2. Unit of Account
3. Store of Value
    Liquidity gives money an advantage

an asset is liquid if i cna seell it fast at market price

What can serve as money?
Anything accepted by the public as money!
1. Commodity Money
2. Fiat Money (Legal Tender)

How do we measure the stock of money?

U.S. Monetary Aggregates
Aggregate Measures of Money Supply

the first thing you're going to include is currency.
what the fuck is currency?????????????
    paper money with the pictures on them
the second thing you're going to count is demand deposits (basically $$ in your checking account)
the third thing you're going to count is the travelers' checks (you just used them to travel, before the credit card days)
the last 3 i listed are in category M1 (the most liquid of money). you use them to buy things
4th: savings deposits
5th: small denomination time deposits (less than $100k), basically like a bond with the bank
6th: money market mutual fund deposits (owned by individuals)
    you go t a bank and you say i wanna invest in ur mutual fund
    the bank is like ok. pools urs with other ppls money and invests in treasury
    if they dont make money then u dont either so its kinda a risk?
the last 6 are in category M2 (M2 includes M1)
in this class we are using M2 for mone

So Generally
    in this class and everywhere, money is currency and some types of bank deposits
    money is a stock variable
        you can count money at one point in time.

Billions of dollars of money in circulation:
Currency: 1124
Travelers checks: 4
Demand deposits: 1402
M1 Money stock: 2529
Other deposits: 8110
M2 money stock: 10639


