R = (F - P(B))/P(B)
R: rate of return
F: face value / future value
P(B): price of the bond (what you paid for the bond initially)

pay $80 for a bond, get $100 when you cash it in, rate of return is 25%
R = (100 - 80)/80 = 25%

if price level incerases u want more money and less bonds
interest rate increases u want to hold less money and more bonds

incerasing price level makes people want to hold more money, push up interest rate

when you go to a low enough interest rate, then demane for money just goes infinite
its fukin crazy dude

whoa

hold MONEY

FALLING INTO THE LIQUIDITY TRAP: excessive increase in M

IMG_1008.JPG

fed printed a shitton of money in order to lower the interest rates BUT THEY fuck ed up so like yeah its just kinda screwed now we're fucked

increase in money supply -> lowered interst rate!!!!!
    BUT IF U DO IT TOO MUCH THEN U DONT LOWER THE INTEREST RATE
    THAT MUCH AND U GET FUCKED OVER
in the long run if we increase money supply: inflation
    AND PRICES (PRICE LEVEL) INCREASE
        AND DEMAND FOR MONEY INCREASES
            FISCHER EFFECT!!!!!!!!!!

the moral of the story is: the fed can lower the interst rate in the short run for bad times,
but it cant do it over the long run because then u fuck everyone over with the fischer effect???

WHY DO WE CARE about the short run?
    because in the long run we are all dead!!!

Chapter 11: Goods and Services Market

we r moving into the GOODS market
i the goods market we BUY goods and SERVICES

Goods Market Equilibrium
Y = AD

Y: real GDP
AD: Aggregate Demand (its not A*D)


what is aggregate demand!??!?!
    aggregate demand has 4 components
    It's all the things we buy... everyone.
    1st group: households (we call it C for consumption)
    2nd group: businesses (we call it I for investments)
    3rd group: government (we call it G for government purchases)
    4th group: foreign countries (we call it EX - IM for net exports)

AD = C + I + G + EX - IM

when we buy a laptop, it becomes a laptop
whena household buy something, it becomes consumption

if a business firm buys the same laptop, then it becomes an investment
if a government buys the same laptop, then it becomes a government purchase

different people buy different things for different incentives
u buy a laptop: cuz for computer games
govt buys laptop: the government buys it for the employees so they can play computer games

IF YOU LOOK AT THE EQUATION

GDP is determined by aggregate demand?!?!?!?!?

Detrimants of Consumption (C)

what makes a household decide to buy shit they dont need?
Real Disposable Income: Y(d) = Y - TX + TR
real disposable income = income - taxes + transfer payments
    transfer payments (TR): the government just hands over money to some people
        food stamps, unemployment benefits, etc

expected future real disposable income: Y(d)^e

Real Interest Rate: R - pi
if real interest rate increases, you will consume less

Real Wealth: (Nominal Wealth)/Price

Detrimants of Investment (I)

Real Interest Rate
Expected Future Profits
Uncertainty about Future Profits

Determinants of Government Purchases (G)
two times of government purchases:
Routine Purchases
    maintain highways, military
Fiscal Policy
    reduce unemployment and shit like that?
    when aggregate demand goes down, government
    comes to the marketplace, buys more stuff to
    increase aggregate demand and GDP goes up, hire
    more people. FISCAL POLICY BREH

Determinants of Net Exports (EX - IM)
Domestic Price Level
    if US price increases, then we will export less and import more
        therefore our net exports will go down
    in other words:
    price increases then our prices will be more expensive compared
        to foreign goods, and foreigners will buy less US good and we
        will buy more foreign goods yeah yeah yeahy eayyeaeayh
Foreign Price Level
    what if foreign price level goes down? then we will import more
        and export less
Domestic Income
    what if domestic income goes up?
        what happens to exports?
            probably nothing!!!!!
        but NET exports goes down because we're prolly gonna import more shit
            and EX - IM
Foreign Income
    same shit

Income-Consumption Relationship
IMG_1009.JPG (this is for the U.S.)
the relatonship is linear!!!!
between real disposable income and real consumption

slope = (change in C)/(change in Y(d)) = 0.92
if u incerase your disposable income by 1 unit, then u increase your consumption by 0.92
    u save like 0.08

^^ the name for this is Marginal Propensity to Consume (MPC) ^^
    so the MPC on avg since 1947 is 0.92

another name:
Keynesian Consumption Function
IMG_1010.JPG
C = 100 + 0.90 * Y(d)
disposable income never becomes 0
0.9 is the MPC (aka the slope of the graph)
plug in 1100 for Y(d), then u get 1090 for C
