started at 6:35, gonna end at like 7


chapter 10: money market

Supply of Money:

in the case of money, nobody sells money and nobody buys money
there are a bunch of people who sell apples + people who buy apples.

the supply of money is the money you actually hold at a point in time (D1)

demand of money is the amount of money you're willing AND ABLE to hold
ABLE = you can sell all your shit and own it

like if i have like 50 teslas at $100k each, then my demand for money can be $5M or less
the demand for money cannot exceed the total value of your assets

assets = money + bonds + stocks + other = total wealth

ur demand for money cannot exceed your total wealth

Theories of Demand for Money
Theories that explain why people want to hold the amount of money they do

why do people wanna hold more money sometimes and less money some other times?

1. Classical (Cambridge) THeory
2. Keynesian Theory

CLASSICAL THEORY

-Money is a medium of exchange. People use money to buy goods and services
-So demand for money depends on the value of goods and services produced, i.e., nominal GDP (P*Y)
        |-------> this is the only time when nominal GDP becomes important in your life

if we produce more then you want to hold more shit

demand for money bears a constant relationship to the nominal GDP model
by the same %

its the same relationship as that velocity equation from last lecture
M*V = P*Y

Keynes said "not so fast baby"


KEYNESIAN THEORY

money is not just the medium of exhange tho, its also an asset!!!!!

there are 3 motives to hold money:
1. transactions motive
2. precautionary motive
        like in case ur arm breaks off
3. speculative motive

lets ignore all the other assets
two competing assets in ppls portfolios
money and bonds
should i hold more of which?

two opposing forces in peoples decisins
convenience of liquidity
interest income from bonds

if interest rates on bonds increases, do you wanna hold more money or less?
    more

money = transaction and precautionary motive
bonds = speculative motive

if R (interest rate) of bonds increases you wanna hold more bonds and therefore less money
if R goes down then vice versa

real GDP up -> demand for money up
price up -> demand for money up

^ both of those for both classical and keynesian model. precautionary motive.

Img 998

^ dats the interst rate of bonds vs money held

if price goes up double then u double the money

img 999
